---
title: "Internet is anarchy"
weight: 1
---

# Internet is anarchy

The internet is anarchy. I've been on the internet for 15 years now and I see that people are trying to make it safer. I completely disagree with that. All these internet personalities are trying to make the public internet a safer and more positive place. I do understand moderation in your **OWN** corner of the internet. It is your area. But you cannot do that on the public internet. Keep in mind when i say internet, i mean the public internet, not deep web nor dark web. The people crying about it are a bunch of pussies! If you cannot stand the internet then go on it.

The internet started over 20 years ago. At that time, there were not many people accessing and even less interacting with the internet. The sharing of information was as free as you can get throughout the world. Although access to it was hard, most people who could access it were middle class minimum. Of course, at the very genesis, there were mostly academics and scientists.

You're gonna need this for later but I\'m just placing it here. I have this theory about psychology. It's not some profound shit, I'm not the only human with half a brain that can think for himself but here goes. I believe that once you are rich/happy/satisfied/content you become very lazy mentally. From my experience, the easier it is to achieve something, the less we are (as humans) going to learn about the nuances of how it fundamentally works.

Before explaining myself i\'ll give you a bit of context:

## Web 1.0

Firstly, here is a quote from Graham Cormode and Balachander Krishnamurthy:

> \"_content creators were few in Web 1.0 with the vast majority of users simply acting as consumers of content_\"

In the early days, the internet was fairly easy to access. Accessing it wasnt that much of an issue. But interacting with it is another thing. Forums were slowly rearing the heads out. So you had to tinker with it to understand how it works before you could actually host something on your own. It needed time investment. Most of the content on the internet at that time were personal web pages. Very basic stuff. Because you had people who were academics or people who took the time to learn it; that made the interactions a lot more clean due to the fact that the only people who could interact with the internet were people with at least half a brain. You only had smart people who knew that the internet was only virtual so any bad thing said is not taken seriously. Keep in mind I\'m saying smart, not righteous. Of course, you have lots of smart people who use their wits to host cult sites ,scam sites, conspiracy... But the interactions were only host to clients so very restrained but clean.

## Web 2.0

> "_The Web we know now, which loads into a browser window in essentially static screenfuls, is only an embryo of the Web to come. The first glimmerings of Web 2.0 are beginning to appear, and we are just starting to see how that embryo might develop. The Web will be understood not as screenfuls of text and graphics but as a transport mechanism, the ether through which interactivity happens. It will \[\...\] appear on your computer screen, \[\...\] on your TV set \[\...\] your car dashboard \[\...\] your cell phone \[\...\] hand-held game machines \[\...\] maybe even your microwave oven._"

\- Fragmented Future, [[Darcy DiNucci]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Darcy_DiNucci), January 1999

Web 2.0 is when things really sped up. GAFAM introduced this new architecture to us and we (humans) loved it. It made everything more accessible and facilitated interactions. It is also around this time that the deep web appears. Forums, social networks, blogs were exploding. Making the interaction with the internet (actually changing something on the internet, not just viewing it.) a lot simpler: comments, posts, videos. Although they paved the way for the web we more or less know right now, they are not the ones who shaped web culture as we know it. I would give that title to Youtube, Twitter, Netflix, Insta,Reddit, 4Chan, Twitch.tv and of course how can we forget our favorite: TikTok (TTTIR4NY). They used the business models of GAFAM to build and shape the internet as we know it today.

## Computers VS Phones

It's cool to make the use of the internet simpler but if you have no one to use it, it\'s not very effective is it? The default way of accessing the internet in the early days was with a computer. The internet population was slowly climbing but still enjoying the time amongst themselves. But then... on that fateful day of January 9th, 2007, the smartphone came, saw and slowly implemented itself on the internet client market share. The mobile client was an even faster and more efficient way of using the internet. The internet was flooded by a surge of new clients consuming everything in its wake. The population of the internet slowly went up over the course of 10 years until the end of 2016 where the mobile client successfully took over the majority of the internet population. Now you would think to yourself: "More people coming on the internet that's good right?". Well imo, no. More people coming in, means more normies come in, more unhinged people come in. I will just call these types of people dumb people from now on.

## Web 2.5?

At this point The GAFAM were getting dated so they had to more or less switch business models. And this is when they created what we are in now, something I like to call web 2.5 (I know its definition is crypto shit but easier. I\'m sorry but crypto shit is still crypto shit so I would still consider that web 3.0). Where they provide the hosting capabilities and rent that out to other businesses or customers. With the ease of access to make persistent changes from the client with comments and such, these new business models made it easier to scale up a small internet company. Effectively rendering the whole aspect of using the internet a lot simpler.

## Psychology

Going back to my theory, with all these people coming in the "easy way" (phones, mobile clients...). They just don't care how the internet works. It is just another product for them to consume and not an ideology to understand. And this causes a lot of problems. I'm sure you guys have all watched _The Social Dilemma_ (if you haven't, it\'s a documentary about the dangers of social media and fake news). This is where it gets dangerous. We know that GAFAM are the biggest fish on the internet. If not by their main business model then as the overarching hoster for a good chunk of the big internet companies nowadays. With more dumb people rolling in and with social media being more and more prevalent in our day to day lives, we have switched to making interaction on the internet the default type of interaction. Making the internet the new default reality. But where is the reality in which all these new interactions lay? In GAFAM's world. We have voluntarily given GAFAM the reign on the world we use for interactions. Well you know how "little kids\'\' can get this warped view on reality, themselves and beauty standards. I think it\'s just the Americans calling it little kids because they don't want to admit that their full grown adults \[most of the population of the internet mind you\] also get manipulated by the internet.

## Culture

I\'m not saying I know everything regarding internet culture, far from it. But I think I understand most of it. The internet is edgy, will do anything to achieve something, relentless, overkill, hive mind-y. The internet doesn't care about money, it cares about the experience. It will go to great lengths to intimidate someone, find his dox, troll. But it will also do that to make someone happy. It is more about the ideology than the results. They weaponise their autism for the good and the bad. It doesn\'t care.

Now I want to do a parallel with 2b2t for a second. For those who don't know 2b2t is a minecraft anarchy server where cheats, glitches, exploits are allowed. So how do I make a base without getting found out and griefed? You go far from spawn to coordinates only you would know and only share the coords to your friends. But in 2b2t there are actually 2 games being played. The actual minecraft game but also the metagame around it. Griefers will invest a lot of time and effort (even if it costs them) to find out where the base is and grief it. There are so many ways to determine coords from a photo of the base based on the grass patterns and the cloud patterns and such. (2b2t meme: That grass looks familiar) Now imagine your life is your base. You can live your life in peace with minimal attacks if you don't upload anything on the internet. But in 2b2t when you want to flex a build or something. You have to be very careful and paranoid; scrubbing everything that can be traced back to the coordinates of the base. When uploading on the internet we should be doing the same thing. Only showing what we are comfortable with being potentially destroyed by the internet. And don't forget about the metagame.

Cringe is unforgivable because the internet is a public place. It was never designed to be something it is now. Some sort of alternate reality slowly taking over our real ones. And achievements in this new reality are better than our current one. Look at [this](https://youtu.be/zGAD7HrJlEc?si=xyfwAQQN0j7VJhDd&t=277) video.

You want to show your cringiest shit on the internet because everyone is doing it so you need the attention as well. Then you gotta be prepared to deal with it in a public manner. This is not some private party where you share cringey secrets with your friends. The internet is gonna do what it is gonna do. And then [you have the audacity to plead for mercy](https://youtu.be/zGAD7HrJlEc?si=RqveSdwUtQbyh4Y5&t=334) when the internet roasts you and wishes bad things to happen to you. You say that you can laugh at yourself and stuff. But when the roasting and attacks become too much for you, you dare ask the internet to stop? And don't come at me saying "She never pleaded for mercy!"; Fuck off please, her saying you won clearly indicates some sort of: "Alright you won. Now please stop attacking or doing what you are doing to me". If you can't keep a level head then don't post it on the public web ffs. This is indicative of all the people who have main character syndrome that don't see the extent of the internet before it is too late and then ask us to change the rules. The internet has always done what it wants and will go to extreme lengths to do it.
